Now that you know how to use Cloud9 to read,
write, and debug code,
let's take a quick look at how it can be leveraged for entire development
teams and organizations to write software and collaborate.
In the AWS world,
identity and access management is a service that is used to
provide granular access to AWS services and resources to
users and to other AWS services.
It's a pretty important concept, so let me go ahead and say that one more time.
Identity and access management, commonly referred to as IAM,
is the service within AWS that is used to provide access
to specific AWS resources and services.
Access could be permitted to either AWS users or to other resources or services.
I know this concept can be a little complicated at first,
but essentially, the idea here is that identity and access
management can control access to everything within AWS, whether that
access is permitted to a single user or access to a service provided
to a different service or resource.
So with that logic,
in order to provide users with an AWS account access to
Cloud9, they would need access to an IAM policy,
which is essentially an explicit set of permissions to enable them to access
the service. When building solutions with Cloud9 that interact with other AWS
services, such as AWS Lambda or S3, you'll likely need to have IAM policies
in place that allow the secure communication between the two systems. Within
the scope of this course,
we're only going to cover IAM as it pertains to
providing users access to Cloud9.
However,
if you're interested in learning more about identity and
access management and how to use it securely for a broader
set of AWS services and users,
I recommend checking out my Introduction to AWS Security course, also here on
Pluralsight. As an AWS administrator, there are two main types of team setups
to be aware of when setting up teams to use Cloud9,
The standard team setup option leverages IAM and allows you to provide
users access to Cloud9 within a single AWS account.
An enterprise setup, however,
lets you leverage AWS Single Sign‑On solution to enable users from
multiple AWS accounts to access Cloud9 within an enterprise.
This is a fairly advanced setup option that better enables large
corporations with multiple AWS accounts to set up Cloud9
globally to all of their AWS accounts.
You're probably wondering, why would a company ever have multiple AWS accounts?
That sounds a little complicated.
Well, for large organizations,
managing security, billing, and resource provisioning can
actually become a complicated endeavor due to the number
of users within the system.
So because of this problem,
large corporations will often have entirely separate AWS
accounts to better govern their environments.
A typical use case for this is companies may have a different AWS
account for test and production environments.
This enables their resources to innovate with less security
barriers in place in a test environment,
but also enables an entirely separate and more secure production
environment that is running their active applications.
Conceptually, Cloud9 team setups are quite simplistic.
Each AWS account by default has a root account.
The root account is then used to create different IAM users
that become admins within that environment.
Admins are basically just IAM users that have elevated
permissions within the AWS account.
Our admins then would be used to create additional IAM users and
provide them access to services using IAM. So, for Cloud9 team
setups, our admin account would create IAM users for each
developer within the organization.
Now, AWS users, by default, have access to nothing.
So let's say we want to assign all of these users access to Cloud9.
Rather than assigning individual policies to each user,
which would get pretty tedious if we had a lot of users, we could just add all
of our users to an IAM group based on their job function.
For example,
we could add all of our engineers to a developer group, then we could take
that developer group and attach a Cloud9 IAM policy to it,
which would provide access to Cloud9 to all IAM users within that group.
This example outlines how you can quickly and securely provide
access to many IAM users to an AWS service,
be it Cloud9 or a different service entirely.
If you're wondering why we can't just use the root account to create
our developer IAM users in our developer group, well,
this is actually bad security practice in AWS.
AWS recommends that the root account only be used to create the first
IAM user and shouldn't be used on a daily basis.
Using the root account on a daily basis or for common administrative
tasks is bad practice because the root account actually has
permissions to delete the AWS account entirely.
I won't be demoing how to create enterprise Cloud9 setup in this course,
but I think it's important to understand how it works conceptually,
at least at a high level,
so you can make the decision later when setting up users in
Cloud9 on the method that best matches your use case. With
AWS, you can create organizations.
Organizations are essentially a group of AWS accounts.
Each organization has a master account and then a member account.
Both master and member accounts have full access to AWS services and
function just as if they were standard AWS accounts.
The only difference between the two is that the master account can be used to
create and remove member accounts within that single organization. Within each
AWS account, similar to our previous example,
the accounts would use the root account to create admin users,
which would then be provided access to create additional users and
create IAM groups. With organizations, you could then provide access
to IAM groups to Cloud9 using AWS Single Sign‑On that would span
across multiple AWS accounts within that same organization. As
mentioned previously, when to use an organization over a single AWS
account is quite subjective,
since anything can technically be accomplished with a single AWS account
rather than using an organization. For most situations,
a single AWS account is probably sufficient.
However, if you work for a very large corporation,
leveraging AWS organizations to have multiple AWS accounts
might actually be the best option for you.
Let's get back to the AWS console and do a quick demo showing how you
can provide access to Cloud9 to multiple IAM users.
In order to provide access to our users to Cloud9,
we could head over to the identity and access management, or
IAM, dashboard within the AWS console.
From here,
we can select users to view all of the IAM users we currently have in
this AWS account. In the user screen, we can view a list of IAM users
and the groups they are associated to.
Using IAM groups is a more efficient method of assigning access
to AWS resources, multiple users that require similar access
and have similar job requirements,
such as a group of developers working on a specific application or system.
We can see the developers group is already created in our
account, and a few of our users, such as LukaDoncic,
John Smith, and BobanMarjanovic, are already placed within this group.
In order to provide these users access to Cloud9,
we need to add a new IAM policy to the developers group.
So let's select the developers group hyperlink next to the Luka IAM user.
In the IAM groups page for our developers group, we can view active
permissions that this IAM group has. Here we can select to attach a new IAM
policy. Again, an IAM policy is just a specific set of granular permissions
that can be added to an IAM user or group that provides access to AWS
resources or services.
When attaching a policy,
we can search for AWS policies based on the native U.S. service.
So let's type Cloud9 and see what we get.
We get a few hits immediately of permission options we have.
Let's go ahead and select to add the AWS Cloud9 user policy to
our group and select to attach the policy.
And there it is. Really just with a few clicks,
we've provided every single user in our developers group access to use Cloud9.
A great benefit of IAM is that if we want to create new users later,
we could simply just add them to the appropriate IAM
group, and they will automatically get all of the
permissions set by that specific group.
Well, now that our developers group is set up and ready to use Cloud9,
let's try logging in with one of our users. In the login
screen for our AWS account, we can log in with our user,
LukaDoncic, to access the AWS dashboard.
Once we get the AWS dashboard, we can select Cloud9
to access the service. Perfect.
We can now see that our IAM user, which has been added to the
developers group, can access Cloud9, since we added the IAM policy
toward developers IAM group. With this simple setup, an AWS
administrator could easily provision hundreds of IAM users and quickly
provide them access to Cloud9, or any other resource for that matter, by using IAM roles and policies.